## const Sociology = (student) => { return bootcamp teacher; }.
---
Back in 2015 I was studying Urban Sociology in Amsterdam. Two months into the year each student had to choose the subject for his or her final thesis. Because I never went abroad during my bachelor or my master, the project group with the location of study being Shenzhen appealed a lot to me.

Wait what? Shenzhen 🤨,_“what the hell is Shenzhen”_ you might be thinking, this was my first thought at the time as well. Well, Shenzhen is a city in southern China that is home to between 10 and 15 million inhabitants, it borders Hong Kong 🇭🇰 and is one of the many populous areas in the Pearl River Delta. Other Delta notables include Guangzhou and Macau.

I think it would serve us well to have a good understanding of this city before continuing, so let’s have a brief look at its history. In 1979 the **visionary leader Deng Xiaoping** made a bold step towards **market-oriented reforms** and planned to execute a **capitalist experiment.** A central point to his capitalist experiment was the plan to develop several ***Special Economic Zones.*** These zones were to be considered **training grounds for local talent**, but also to experiment with possible **future economic management systems**. Over the course of three phases, construction, restructuring and re-engineering, the Shenzhen Special economic zone was built up next to Hong Kong.

Where previously there were small fishing communities totaling an inhabitant’s figure of around 300,000, there now lays an **Asian Megacity** boasting head offices of **Tencent, Huawei** and the factories of **Foxconn** (Yes, those are the lovely people that manufacture your beloved Apple products). All this happened in the over the course of just 35 years.

Hopefully we now have a better idea of what a **miracle of Chinese state structured** planning Shenzhen is.

Let’s continue.

After being introduced to this thesis subject I was sold, my mind was set on visiting Shenzhen. I was accepted to the project group and had to start thinking about my final research question. **Having never been to China**, one of the things that puzzled me was the fact that the **perception of this country I had in my mind**, formed by popular movies and western media, **was not aligned with the way Shenzhen was introduced to me**. I started wondering what made this city special, and more specifically, what made it so attractive for young Chinese people to move there.

After a few months of preparation, it was **time to do some fieldwork**. So on we went, an interdisciplinary group of 18 students on a 7-week trip to Shenzhen. In between the Bajou and Tsingtao’s I managed to do ***24 interviews and a focus group*** with young Chinese entrepreneurial urbanites. Their businesses ranged from importing wine 🍷, to running a company that produced LEGO-style do it yourself robot building blocks🤖, from being a professional wine taster, to developing an interactive TV remote control.

I spoke with a very diverse set of human beings and every single one of them was completely different than the media-based assumptions I had about Chinese young people. I expected them to be rigid, hard working people that value the state above personal experience.  ___Everything for the collective, Assimilate; We are the Borg.___ On the contrary, they were passionate 🔥, driven, and had a capitalistic mindset which seemed unrivalled by my friends from the western-European cultures I grew up in at large.

Now don’t get me wrong, I’m not trying to put a subjective valuation on capitalism, implying that it’s a good thing by default. However, the way my respondents __embraced and lived by the capitalist economic model__ as opposed to their __communist heritage__ almost made me believe it is an inherently good thing.

So there I was, making my way through the urban jungle called Shenzhen, going __from skyscraper to hardware marketplace to winery__, coming out of each interview even more baffled and inspired than the last. Their passion, vast domain specific knowledge, life experiences, and the fact that most of them were __active in the technological scene__ creating hardware and or software made me feel like ___I was missing out on where the magic was happening___. This became most apparent when interviewing an entrepreneur who was enrolled in the Shenzhen Haxlr8r program; a hardware startup incubator. After the interview I had a few minutes to look around the incubator. There were __young people__ on every desk of the incubator. Each of them __talking, building, creating, discussing and pitching__ their products in a virtuous manner.  I knew there and then that I wanted/_needed_ to __learn how to code__.👨🏽‍💻

Fast forward a few months later. After finishing my thesis and graduating from my Master in Sociology the things I saw in Shenzhen, the people I met there, and the culture I tasted lingered in my subconscious. ___Because of this toe that got dipped in the Shenzhen tech-pool, working as a Sociologist did not seem interesting anymore.___ But how could I ever make my entry into this landscape without any soft- or hardware knowledge?

Without a clear future plan I kept on working in the same bar I was working in throughout my study. Inspired by my interviews I started a small social enterprise with some friends. Whilst working on this project part-time and part-time in the bar, the stars ✨ and the moon 🌝aligned and I was handed the ___life changing opportunity___ to participate in a ___programming bootcamp___. I did not hesitate and embraced this chance wholeheartedly. I would learn later that this __bootcamp__ would not only train me to acquire the __necessary skill-set__ to make my first steps into the tech-scene, but after gaining some experience as a developer, they would also __offer me the opportunity to work for them as a teacher__ and increase my programming skills exponentially.

So there you have it, the story of how my ___Sociology degree___ led me __to__ become a programming ___bootcamp teacher.___
